# Networking

All devices are connected to a local area network. I'm using a 2,5/5Ghz wifi router for this job.
I tried it with the internal and an external wifi stick. Both worked - but the range was to low. 

## Raspberry Pi as Accesspoint
 
Per default the `wlan0` device allready configured

#### run
```
cd /data/drone-boat-client/app
npm run network
```
That starts the accesspoint (hostapd) and the dns server (dnsmasq).

- edit `app/config/network.conf` and change the `ssid` and the `wpa_passphrase`

#### pm2
Do this one time and the networking app starts on system boot.
```
cd /data/drone-boat-client/app
pm2 start "npm run network" --name "network"
pm2 save
```

> The app hooks the dns resolving. That means, when the app is starting, the `/etc/resolv.conf`
file will be replaced with the local nameserver: `nameserver 127.0.0.1`.
If the app is shutting down, the app restore the previous `resolv.conf` content with
a `resolvconf -u`.

#### Network setup without a bride to eth1
- edit `app/config/network.conf` : `[dns.config]`
```
interface=wlan0
dhcp-range=wlan0,192.168.100.100,192.168.100.199,12h
```

- `/etc/network/interfaces`
````
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

auto eth0
allow-hotplug eth0
iface eth0 inet dhcp

auto wlan0
iface wlan0 inet static
  address 192.168.100.100/24
  netmask 255.255.255.0
  network 192.168.100.0
  broadcast 192.168.100.255
````

#### Network setup with a bridge to eth1
- edit `app/config/network.conf` : `[dns.config]`
```
interface=br0
no-dhcp-interface[]=eth1
dhcp-range=br0,192.168.100.100,192.168.100.199,12h
```

- edit `app/config/network.conf` : `[accesspoint.config]`
```
bridge=br0
```

- `/etc/network/interfaces`
````
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

auto eth0
allow-hotplug eth0
iface eth0 inet dhcp

auto eth1
allow-hotplug eth1
iface eth1 inet static
  address 192.168.100.101/24
  netmask 255.255.255.0
  network 192.168.100.0
  broadcast 192.168.100.255
  dns-servers 192.168.100.100

auto br0
iface br0 inet static
  address 192.168.100.100
  netmask 255.255.255.0
  network 192.168.100.0
  broadcast 192.168.100.255
  bridge_ports eth1
  bridge_fd 0
  bridge_stp no
````



#### Wifi Accesspoint
With the previous setup, hostapd is installed and its service is disabled.
The app runs the hostapd binary.
 
All hostapd configuration stuff under `[accesspoint]` and `[accesspoint.config]` in:
```
app/config/default.conf
``` 

The app is creating a normally `hostapd.conf` file in:
```
app/config/run/hostapd.conf
```
To change the SSID or login credentials, edit the app config and change the `ssid`, `wpa_passphrase`.


#### DNS Server with dnsmasq
With the previous setup, dnsmasq is installed and its service is disabled.
The reason for this is, that the main Node.js runs the dnsmasq binary.
That means, the dns server starts with the app - not with a system boot.
 
All dnsmasq configuration stuff under `[dns]` and `[dns.config]`in:
```
app/config/default.conf
``` 
The app is creating a normally `dnsmasq.conf` file in:
```
app/config/run/dnsmasq.conf
```
The dns names for the sub unit devices (the NodeMCUs) are stored in:
```
app/config/run/addresses/droneboat.conf
```
actually with this content: *but not used*
```
address=/droneboat/192.168.100.100
address=/move.droneboat/192.168.100.110
address=/dolly.droneboat/192.168.100.120
address=/air.droneboat/192.168.100.130
address=/water.droneboat/192.168.100.140
```

## Installing Alpha AWUS1900 Wifi

> [RTL8812AU/21AU and RTL8814AU drivers](https://github.com/aircrack-ng/rtl8812au)
 
This is a good one, but hard to install. I've got it on a raspberry pi 3b. Woohaa.

# But
I tried it with the internal an with an external wifi stick (Alpha RTL8814AU) - both was working well,
but the range was not enough. It is nice in a home environment, but nothing in the field.  
  
I'm using now a 12V 2A Wifi Router with both: 2,5Ghz and 5 Ghz bands.

